I'm not gonna dive into this too much, but
there are a few important concepts and
syntax that I would like
you to be familiar with.
When you work with files, there
are different modes for opening them,
don't recognize them or
sorry, don't memorize them.
Instead, check out this cheat sheet for
when you need it,
and forget it,
it's kind of useless knowledge.
The important one though, is r which is
open for reading, that is the default.
So if you don't pass in a file mode
that's the one that it's going to be.
There are other file modes like truncate,
open for
writing, but
truncate the file there's a text mode.
Generally, you'll probably
only be working with r or w or
occasionally a, which means open this
file I would like to write to it.
But if that file already exists, append to
the end of it instead of overwriting it.
So opening a file in Python
looks something like this.
You call open on it.
Remember that will open a file
in read mode by default.
If you want to open a file for writing but
replace any existing file use mode w or
if you want to open a file for
reading and writing, but
append to the end of a file if
it already exists use mode a.
Now the thing about files is,
you want to call close on any open file
that you have to release the handle
that your program has on that file
back to the operating system.
Otherwise you're locking it up.
And if your program crashes
before you happen to call close,
you might end up in some
pretty weird states.
So Python has some shortcuts and
tax called a context manager.
And a context manager is
like taking a block of code
that depends on some resource,
like a file.
And there's, some stuff that happens under
the hood when you use this
syntax this keyword with,
that will then close the file for you, and
also take care of any cleanup if
this happens to throw an exception.
So if you are familiar with
other programming languages,
it's similar to a try and finally block
but it's a lot cleaner to look at.
So you can think of context managers
as code that just automagically
provisions a resource before your code
runs and then cleans it up afterward.
And that open function that we saw
earlier that works as a context manager.
And so opening a file can look like this.
And then we don't have to call
close on that file every time and
litter our code with open,
close, open, close.
We can use this with keyword and know
that that closing is happening for us.